[Examples] SageMaker Pipelines distributed training (#1126)
awslabs/graphstorm: examples/sagemaker-pipelines-graphbolt/README.md

        }
    }]'
```

This command creates an instance using the "Deep Learning OSS Nvidia Driver AMI GPU PyTorch 2.4.1 (Ubuntu 22.04) 20241116" AMI, in the default VPC with the default security group. Make your instance accessible through SSH, using an appropriate security group or the [AWS Systems Session Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/session-manager.html), and log in to the instance.  You can also use the [AWS Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/tutorial-launch-my-first-ec2-instance.html) to create a new EC2 instance.

> NOTE: You may need to update the --image-id to the latest available. See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/find-dlami-id.html for instructions.

Once logged in, you can set up your Python environment to run GraphStorm

```bash
conda init
eval $SHELL
# Available on the DLAMI, otherwise create a new conda env
conda activate pytorch

# Install dependencies
pip install sagemaker[local] boto3 ogb pyarrow

# Clone the GraphStorm repository to access the example code
git clone https://github.com/awslabs/graphstorm.git ~/graphstorm
```

### Download and prepare datasets

> In this example you will use two related datasets to demonstrate the scalability of GraphStorm. The Open Graph Benchmark (OGB) project hosts a number of graph datasets that can be used to benchmark the performance of graph learning systems. In this example you will use two citation network datasets, the ogbn-arxiv dataset for a small-scale demo, and the ogbn-papers100M dataset for a demonstration of GraphStorm's large-scale learning capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Open Graph Benchmark (OGB) project hosts a number of graph datasets that can be used to benchmark the performance of graph learning systems. In this example you will use two citation network datasets, the ogbn-arxiv dataset for a small-scale demo, and the ogbn-papers100M dataset for a demonstration of GraphStorm's large-scale learning capabilities.
```

Because the two datasets have similar schemas and the same task (node classification) they allow us to emulate a typical data science pipeline, where we first do some model development and testing on a smaller dataset locally, and once ready launch SageMaker jobs to train on the full-scale data.

#### Prepare the ogbn-arxiv dataset

> You'lll download the smaller-scale [ogbn-arxiv](https://ogb.stanford.edu/docs/nodeprop/#ogbn-arxiv) dataset to run a local test before launching larger scale SageMaker jobs on AWS. This dataset has ~170K nodes and ~1.2M edges.  You will use the following script to download the arxiv data and prepare them for GraphStorm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll download the smaller-scale [ogbn-arxiv](https://ogb.stanford.edu/docs/nodeprop/#ogbn-arxiv) dataset to run a local test before launching larger scale SageMaker jobs on AWS. This dataset has ~170K nodes and ~1.2M edges.  You will use the following script to download the arxiv data and prepare them for GraphStorm.
```

```bash
# Provide the S3 bucket to use for output
BUCKET_NAME=<your-s3-bucket>
```

You will use this script to directly download, transform and upload the data to S3:

```bash
cd ~/graphstorm/examples/sagemaker-pipelines-graphbolt
python convert_arxiv_to_gconstruct.py \
    --output-prefix s3://$BUCKET_NAME/ogb-arxiv-input
```

This will create the tabular graph data on S3 which you can verify by running

```bash
aws s3 ls s3://$BUCKET_NAME/ogb-arxiv-input/
                           PRE edges/
                           PRE nodes/
                           PRE splits/

> 2024-12-11 02:13:27       1269 gconstruct_config_arxiv.json

Reviewer: Remove the specific date here.

    numpy==1.26.4 \
    psutil==6.1.0 \
    pyarrow==18.1.0 \
    tqdm==4.67.1 \
    tqdm-loggable==0.2

# Process and upload to S3, this will take around 20 minutes
cd ~/graphstorm/examples/sagemaker-pipelines-graphbolt
python convert_ogb_papers100m_to_gconstruct.py \
    --input-dir ~/papers100M-raw-data
    --output-dir s3://$BUCKET_NAME/ogb-papers100M-input
```

### Build a GraphStorm Docker Image

Next you will build and push the GraphStorm PyTorch Docker image that you'll use to run the graph construction, training and inference jobs. If you have the papers-100M data downloading in the background, open a new terminal to build and push the GraphStorm image.

```bash
# Ensure Docker is installed
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y Docker.io
docker -v

cd ~/graphstorm

bash ./docker/build_graphstorm_image.sh --environment sagemaker --device cpu

bash docker/push_graphstorm_image.sh -e sagemaker -r $REGION -a $ACCOUNT_ID -d cpu
# This will push an image to
# ${ACCOUNT_ID}.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/graphstorm:sagemaker-cpu
```

Next, you will create a SageMaker Pipeline to run the jobs that are necessary to train GNN models with GraphStorm.

## Create SageMaker Pipeline

> In this section, you will create a [Sagemaker Pipeline](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/pipelines-overview.html) on AWS SageMaker.  The pipeline will run the following jobs in sequence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you will create a [Sagemaker Pipeline](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/pipelines-overview.html) on AWS SageMaker. The pipeline will run the following jobs in sequence:
```

* Launch GConstruct Processing job. This prepares and partitions the data for distributed training..
* Launch GraphStorm Training Job. This will train the model and create model output on S3.

> * Launch GraphStorm Inference Job. This will generate predictions and embeddings for every node in the input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Launch GraphStorm Inference Job. This will generate predictions and embeddings for every node in the input graph.
```

```bash
PIPELINE_NAME="ogbn-arxiv-gs-pipeline"

bash deploy_papers100M_pipeline.sh \
    --account $ACCOUNT_ID \
    --bucket-name $BUCKET_NAME --role $SAGEMAKER_EXECUTION_ROLE_ARN \
    --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME \
    --use-graphbolt false
```

### Inspect pipeline

Running the above will create a SageMaker Pipeline configured to run 3 SageMaker jobs in sequence:

* A GConstruct job that converts the tabular file input to a binary partitioned graph on S3.
* A GraphStorm training job that trains a node classification model and saves the model to S3.
* A GraphStorm inference job that produces predictions for all nodes in the test set, and creates embeddings for all nodes.

> To review the pipeline, navigate to [SageMaker AI Studio](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/home?region=us-east-1#/studio-landing) on the AWS Console,  select the domain and user profile you used to create the pipeline in the drop-down menus on the top right, then select **Open Studio**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To review the pipeline, navigate to [SageMaker AI Studio](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/home?region=us-east-1#/studio-landing) on the AWS Console, select the domain and user profile you used to create the pipeline in the drop-down menus on the top right, then select **Open Studio**.
```

Once the pipeline finishes it will print a message like

```
Pipeline execution 655b9357-xxx-xxx-xxx-4fc691fcce94 SUCCEEDED
```

You can inspect its output on S3. Every pipeline execution will be under the prefix `s3://$BUCKET_NAME/pipelines-output/ogbn-arxiv-gs-pipeline/`

Every pipeline execution that shares the same input arguments will be under a randomized execution-identifying output path.
Note that the particular execution subpath might be different in your case.

```bash
aws s3 ls  s3://$BUCKET_NAME/pipelines-output/ogbn-arxiv-gs-pipeline/

# 761a4ff194198d49469a3bb223d5f26e

# There should only be one execution subpath, copy that into a new env variable
EXECUTION_SUBPATH="761a4ff194198d49469a3bb223d5f26e"
aws s3 ls --recursive \
    s3://$BUCKET_NAME/pipelines-output/ogbn-arxiv-gs-pipeline/$EXECUTION_SUBPATH

# gconstruct:
# data_transform_new.json  edge_label_stats.json  edge_mapping.pt  node_label_stats.json  node_mapping.pt  ogbn-arxiv.json  part0  part1

# inference:
# embeddings  predictions

# model:
# epoch-0  epoch-1  epoch-2  epoch-3  epoch-4  epoch-5  epoch-6  epoch-7  epoch-8  epoch-9

```

> You'll be able to see the output of each step in the pipeline. The GConstruct job created the partitioned graph, the training job created models for 10 epochs, and the inference job created embeddings for the nodes and predictions for the nodes in the test set.

Reviewer: How about 
`aws s3 ls --recursive \
    s3://$BUCKET_NAME/pipelines-output/ogbn-arxiv-gs-pipeline/$EXECUTION_SUBPATH/gconstruct`
[...INFO ABOUT GCONSTRUCT..]

`aws s3 ls --recursive \
    s3://$BUCKET_NAME/pipelines-output/ogbn-arxiv-gs-pipeline/$EXECUTION_SUBPATH/model`
[...INFO ABOUT MODEL ARTIFACTS...]

`aws s3 ls --recursive \
    s3://$BUCKET_NAME/pipelines-output/ogbn-arxiv-gs-pipeline/$EXECUTION_SUBPATH/inference`
[...INFO ABOUT INFERENCE...]

You can inspect the mean epoch and evaluation time using the provided `analyze_training_time.py` script and the log file you created:

```bash
python analyze_training_time.py --log-file arxiv-local-logs.txt

Reading logs from file: arxiv-logs.txt

=== Training Epochs Summary ===
Total epochs completed: 10
Average epoch time: 7.43 seconds

=== Evaluation Summary ===
Total evaluations: 11
Average evaluation time: 2.25 seconds
```

Note that these numbers will vary depending on your instance type.

### Create GraphBolt Pipeline

Now that you have established a baseline for performance you can create another pipeline that uses the GraphBolt graph representation to compare the performance.

> You can use the same pipeline creation script, but change two variables, providing a new pipeline name, and setting `USE_GRAPHBOLT` to `“true”`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the same pipeline creation script, but change two variables, providing a new pipeline name, and setting `USE_GRAPHBOLT` to `“true”` as `--use-graphbolt true`.
```

```bash
# Deploy the GraphBolt-enabled pipeline
PIPELINE_NAME="ogbn-arxiv-gs-graphbolt-pipeline"
BUCKET_NAME="my-s3-bucket"
bash deploy_arxiv_pipeline.sh \
    --account "<aws-account-id>" \
    --bucket-name $BUCKET_NAME --role "<execution-role>" \
    --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME \
    --use-graphbolt true
# Execute the pipeline locally
python ~/graphstorm/sagemaker/pipeline/execute_sm_pipeline.py \
    --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME \
    --region us-east-1 \
    --local-execution | tee arxiv-local-gb-logs.txt
```

> Analyzing the training logs you can see the per-epoch time has dropped somewhat:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analyzing the training logs you can see a noticeable reduction in per-epoch time:
```

bash deploy_papers100M_pipeline.sh \
    --account <aws-account-id> \
    --bucket-name <s3-bucket> --role <execution-role> \
    --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME \
    --use-graphbolt false
```

Execute the pipeline and let it run the background.

```bash
python ~/graphstorm/sagemaker/pipeline/execute_sm_pipeline.py \
    --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME \
    --region us-east-1
    --async-execution
```

>Note that your account needs to meet the required quotas for the requested instances. Here the defaults are set to four `ml.g5.48xlarge` for training jobs and one `ml.r5.24xlarge` instance for a processing job. To adjust your SageMaker service quotas you can use the [Service Quotas console UI](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas/home/services/sagemaker/quotas).  To run both pipelines in parallel you will need 8 x $TRAIN_GPU_INSTANCE and 2 x $GCONSTRUCT_INSTANCE.

Next, you can deploy and execute another pipeline, now with GraphBolt enabled:

```bash
PIPELINE_NAME="ogb-papers100M-graphbolt-pipeline"
bash deploy_papers100M_pipeline.sh \
    --account <aws-account-id> \
    --bucket-name <s3-bucket> --role <execution-role> \

>     --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME_GRAPHBOLT \
```

Reviewer: Shall we explicitly use `ogb-papers100M-graphbolt-pipeline` here?

    --use-graphbolt true

# Execute the GraphBolt-enabled pipeline on SageMaker
python ~/graphstorm/sagemaker/pipeline/execute_sm_pipeline.py \

>     --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --pipeline-name $PIPELINE_NAME_GRAPHBOLT \
```

```bash
python analyze_training_time.py \
    --pipeline-name papers-100M-gs-pipeline \
    --execution-name execution-1734404366941
```

Your output will look like

```bash
== Training Epochs Summary ===
Total epochs completed: 15
Average epoch time: 73.95 seconds

=== Evaluation Summary ===
Total evaluations: 15
Average evaluation time: 15.07 seconds
```

Now do the same for the GraphBolt-enabled pipeline:

```bash
python analyze_training_time.py \
    --pipeline-name papers-100M-gs-graphbolt-pipeline \
    --execution-name execution-1734463209078
```

You will see the improved per-epoch and evaluation times:

```bash
== Training Epochs Summary ===
Total epochs completed: 15
Average epoch time: 54.54 seconds

=== Evaluation Summary ===
Total evaluations: 15
Average evaluation time: 4.13 seconds
```

Without loss in accuracy, the latest version of GraphStorm achieved a **~1.4x speedup per epoch, and a 3.6x speedup in evaluation time!**

> ## Conclusion: Accelerate Your Graph ML with GraphStorm

Reviewer: We do not need the conclusion. (Conclusion is only for blogs).

# Faster distributed graph neural network training with GraphStorm 0.4

GraphStorm is a low-code enterprise graph machine learning (ML) framework that provides ML practitioners a simple way of building, training and deploying graph ML solutions on industry-scale graph data. While GraphStorm can run efficiently on single instances for small graphs, it truly shines when scaling to enterprise-level graphs in distributed mode using a cluster of EC2 instances or Amazon SageMaker.

> GraphStorm 0.4 introduced integration with DGL-GraphBolt, a new graph storage and sampling framework that uses a compact graph representation and pipelined sampling to reduce memory requirements and speed up Graph Neural Network (GNN) training. In this example we'll show how GraphStorm 0.4 brings training and inference speedups of up to 3x on the papers100M dataset.

Reviewer: brings training and inference speedups of up to 1.4X and 3.6X respectively on the papers100M dataset.
